# pod2man --section=1 --release="klik" --center=" " --date="12 May 2008"

=head1 NAME

fusioniso - utility to mount ISO filesystem images with FUSE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fusioniso>
S<[-nputgh]>
S<[-b|d|B <sandbox_path>]>
S<[-c <iocharset>]>
S<[I<isofs_image_file>]>
S<[I<mount_point>]>
S<[<FUSE library options>]>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Fusioniso is a FUSE module to mount ISO filesystem images (.iso, .nrg, .bin, .mdf
and .img files). It currently support plain ISO9660 Level 1 and 2, Rock Ridge,
Joliet, and zisofs.

Fusionsiso is a fork of fuseiso (F<http://sourceforge.net/projects/fuseiso/>) dedicated
to the klik2 project. Klik2 is the current working title of the next generation of
klik (F<http://klik.atekon.de/>) which will focus on application virtualization.

Klik creates applications that are encapsulated into a single file. This file in fact
is a compressed file system image similar to the ISO image format that we know from
burning data CDs. Hence, klik is the implementation of the "1 application == 1 file"
principle.

The major difference between fusioniso and fuseiso is the ability to union mount the
filesystem located into the iso image with the existing root file system. Used in
conjunction with the kfakechroot(7) library, you are able to virtualize an application
into the local filesystem from the application point of view.

An another interresting feature is that fusioniso provides a fake sandbox to test
bleeding-edge, unstable applications without messing with the base system, and even
to test multiple versions of the same application on one and the same system without
installation (F<experimental>).

With the standard linux loader (ld-linux for ELF executable), all libraries will be
searched for in the real root, rather than in the chrooted jail. This is really annoying
if libraries are not available in the real root filesystem. Fusionsiso provides an
option to change the path loader on the fly for elf binaries. Used in conjunction With
a modified version of the ld.so loader, that fix this problem.

=head1 FUSIONISO OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-n>

Do NOT maintain file $HOME/.mtab.fusioniso.

=item B<-p>

Maintain mount point, create it if it does not exists and delete it on exit.

=item B<-c I<iocharset>>

Specify iocharset for Joliet filesystem.

=item B<-t>

Debug mode.

=item B<-g>

Change the loader on the fly to F<ld-klik2.so.2> [I<Experimental>].

=item B<-u>

Union mounting feature (forced if -b, -d or -B).

=item B<-b I<path>>

Sandbox feature, redirect all modification from $HOME user to I<path>.

=item B<-d I<path>>

Sandbox feature, redirect all modification from $HOME user dot files and folders to I<path>.

=item B<-B I<path>>

Sandbox feature, redirect all modification to I<path> [I<Experimental>].

=back

=head1 COMMON FUSE LIBRARY OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-f>

Run in foreground, do not daemonize.

=item B<-d>

Run in foreground and print debug information.

=item B<-s>

Run single-threaded.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example session with fusioniso.

 $ mkdir -p /tmp/klik/mnt
 $ export PATH=/usr/local/lib:$PATH
 $ export FAKECHROOT_EXCLUDE_PATH=/tmp:/proc:/dev:/var/run
 $ fusioniso -n -p -t -u $HOME/Desktop/application.cmg /tmp/klik/mnt -s -d

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<FAKECHROOT_BASE_ROOT>

Location where all mount points are located (by default, F</tmp/klik>).

=item B<FAKECHROOT_EXCLUDE_PATH>

List of directories we want to give direct access, usually F</tmp:/proc:/dev:/var/run>.

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=over

=item B<Special files>

In Unix-like operating systems, devices can be accessed via special files. Under FUSE,
special files are not supported due to some security issues. That's the main reason why
we allow direct access to a list of directories

=item B<Root user access>

By default, only the owner of the mount point can access data. To permit root or other
users to access data inside the mount point, you have to specify options B<allow_other> or
B<allow_root> into the FUSE library options. Such options are only allowed if
B<user_allow_other> is set in I</etc/fuse.conf>

=back

=head1 COPYING

Fusioniso is distributued under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

=head1 AUTHORS

 Copyright (C) 2005-2006 by Dmitry Morozhnikov <dmiceman@mail.ru>
 Copyright (C) 2006-2008 by Lionel Tricon <lionel.tricon@gmail.com>
 Thanks to all contributors (see source files)

=head1 SEE ALSO

kfakechroot(7), fusermount(1), kchroot(1)
