# pod2man --section=1 --release="klik" --center=" " --date="12 May 2008"

=head1 NAME

cmginfo - Utility program for listing and extracting files from iso9660 images.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Cmginfo is a utility to perform directory like listings of iso9660 images and
for extracting files.

Can be used to verify the integrity of an iso9660 image.

This tool is part of the he klik2 project. Klik2 is the current working title of
the next generation of klik (F<http://klik.atekon.de/>) which will focus on
application virtualization.

Klik creates applications that are encapsulated into a single file. This file in fact
is a compressed file system image similar to the ISO image format that we know from
burning data CDs. Hence, klik is the implementation of the "1 application == 1 file"
principle.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example session with cmginfo.

 $ cmginfo <cmgfile>
 $ cmginfo -r -l / -f <cmgfile>
 $ cmginfo -r -l / -f <cmgfile> -v
 $ cmginfo -f <cmgfile> -e /recipe.xml

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=over

=item o

Can deal with ISO filesystem images (.iso, .nrg, .bin, .mdf and .img files).

=item o

Current support for plain ISO9660 Level 1 and 2, Rock Ridge, Joliet, and zisofs.

=back

=head1 COPYING

Cmginfo is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.

=head1 AUTHORS

 Copyright (C) 2006-2008 by Lionel Tricon <lionel.tricon@gmail.com>
 Derivated work from fuseiso written by Dmitry Morozhnikov <dmiceman@mail.ru>

=head1 SEE ALSO

isoinfo(1), fusioniso(1)
