# pod2man --section=7 --release="klik" --center=" " --date="12 May 2008"

=head1 NAME

libkfakechroot.so - gives a fake chroot environment

=head1 DESCRIPTION

kfakechroot runs a command in an environment were is additional possibility to
use chroot(8) command without root privileges. This is useful for allowing
users to create own chrooted environment with possibility to install another
packages without need for root privileges.

kfakechroot is a fork of fakechroot (F<http://fakechroot.alioth.debian.org/>) dedicated
to the klik2 project. Klik2 is the current working title of the next generation of
klik (F<http://klik.atekon.de/>) which will focus on application virtualization.

Klik creates applications that are encapsulated into a single file. This file in fact
is a compressed file system image similar to the ISO image format that we know from
burning data CDs. Hence, klik is the implementation of the "1 application == 1 file"
principle.

kfakechroot replaces more library functions (chroot(2), open(2), etc.) by ones
that simulate the effect the real library functions would have had, had the
user really been in chroot. These wrapper functions are in a shared library
F</usr/lib/kfakechroot/libkfakechroot.so> which is loaded through the
B<LD_PRELOAD> mechanism of the dynamic loader. (See ld.so(8))

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example session with kfakechroot.

 $ export PATH=/usr/local/lib:$PATH
 $ export FAKECHROOT_EXCLUDE_PATH=/tmp:/proc:/dev:/var/run
 $ export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/local/lib/kfakechroot/libkfakechroot.so
 $ /usr/local/bin/kchroot /tmp/klik/mnt

=head1 SECURITY ASPECTS

kfakechroot is a regular, non-setuid program. It does not enhance a user's
privileges, or decrease the system's security.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item F</usr/local/lib/kfakechroot/libkfakechroot.so>

The shared library containing the wrapper functions.

=item F</usr/local/bin/kchroot>

Run command or interactive shell with special root directory.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item B<FAKECHROOT_DEBUG>

Only for debugging purpose.

=item B<FAKECHROOT_BASE>

The root directory for fake chroot environment.

=item B<FAKECHROOT_BASE_ROOT>

Location where all fake chroot environments are located (by default, F</tmp/klik>).

=item B<FAKECHROOT_WORKING_DIRECTORY>

Change the current directory to this value (only when a shell script is called).

=item B<FAKECHROOT_EXCLUDE_PATH>

List of directories to exclude from the jail, usually F</tmp:/proc:/dev:/var/run>.

=item B<FAKECHROOT_SU_ROOT>

Change the identity of the current user to root (F<experimental>).

=item B<LD_LIBRARY_PATH>, B<LD_PRELOAD>

Kfakechroot is implemented by wrapping system calls. This is accomplished by
setting LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/lib/kfakechroot and
LD_PRELOAD=libkfakechroot.so. That library is loaded before the
system's C library, and so most of the library functions are intercepted by
it. If you need to set either B<LD_LIBRARY_PATH> or B<LD_PRELOAD> from within
a fakechroot environment, it should be set relative to the given paths, as in
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/foo/bar/

=back

=head1 LIMITATIONS

=over

=item o

F</lib/ld-linux.so.2> is always loaded from real environment. This path is
hardcoded by linker for all binaries.

=item o

Statically linked binaries doesn't work, especially ldconfig(8), so you have to
wrap this command with dummy version and i.e. set the dpkg diversion, see:
dpkg-divert(8).

=item o

ldd(1) also doesn't work. You have to use F<alias ldd='LD_TRACE_LOADED_OBJECTS=1'> instead.

=item o

The full screen applications hangs up if F</dev/tty> file is not a real
device. Link F</dev/tty> file or whole F</dev> directory to the real one or
remove it from fake chroot environment.

=item o

lckpwdf() and ulckpwdf() are ignored so passwd(1) command should work

=item o

Your real uid should exist in F</etc/passwd>. Create it with adduser --uid
I<realuid> I<realuser>.

=back

=head1 COPYING

kfakechroot is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL
2.1 or greater).

=head1 AUTHORS

 (c) 2003-2007 Piotr Roszatycki <dexter@debian.org>
 (c) 2007      Mark Eichin <eichin@metacarta.com>
 (c) 2006-2008 Lionel Tricon <lionel.tricon@gmail.com>

=head1 SEE ALSO

fakeroot(1), dpkg-buildpackage(1), debuild(1), debootstrap(8)
