#summary A checklist that packagers can use to check whether their klik client package works properly

= Introduction =

This page is meant as a checklist that packagers can use to check whether their klik client package works properly
Please add to it.

= Test procedure =

Preparation:
  # Install your newly-built package following exactly the instructions you have (hopefully) written for it
  # Log out from your session and log in again

On a (non-X) console:
  # Does invoking `klik apg`show the correct klik version number including the SVN revision (1.9.0.XXX)  (among the first lines of output)?
  # Does `klik apg` produce apg.cmg?
  # Does `klik Desktop/apg*cmg` run apg? Does it produce output on screen?

In KDE:
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `klik xvier` - does it produce and successfully launch xvier?
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `klik://xvier` - does it produce and successfully launch xvier?
  # Do the cmg files on the desktop have the (colorful yellow-red-blue) xvier icon? (Also test this for firefox which has a png icon)
  # When double-clicked, do they launch properly?
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `konsole`. There, enter: `klik apg`. apg should run inside _that_ konsole window.
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `klik apg`. apg should run inside a _newly opened_ konsole window. (CURRENTLY BROKEN)
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `konsole`. There, enter: `klik sync Desktop/`. Inside the KDE games menu, you should have a working xvier entry with icon. 

In GNOME:
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `klik xvier` - does it produce and successfully launch xvier?
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `klik://xvier` - does it produce and successfully launch xvier?
  # Do the cmg files on the desktop have the (colorful yellow-red-blue) xvier icon? (Also test this for firefox which has a png icon)
  # When double-clicked, do they launch properly?
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `gnome-terminal`. There, enter: `klik apg`. apg should run inside _that_ gnome-terminal window.
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `klik apg`. apg should run inside a _newly opened_ gnome-terminal window. 
  # Press Alt-F2, enter: `gnome-terminal`. There, enter: `klik sync Desktop/`. Inside the GNOME games menu, you should have a working xvier entry with icon.

In Firefox:
  # As the URL, enter `klik://xvier` and press enter. Does klik launch?